Good morning, everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to session 107,
which is 2D graphics using Quartz.
Today we're going to talk about one of
the most exciting aspects of Mac OS X,
which is the Quartz graphics technology.
And for many developers,
you're abstracted from it.
If you're using Carbon,
you often develop with QuickDraw.
If you're using Cocoa,
you're using the NS Graphics and SBAZIA,
those abstractions.
But what we want to talk
about is the Quartz 2D API,
because we really believe
that every application can
benefit from being powered by
PuzzScript and PDF-style graphics.
And also given the ability
to create and consume PDFs as
well as an imported format.
So I'd like to introduce Haroon Sheikh,
who's the Quartz 2D engineering manager,
and he's going to take the
presentation from here.
Thank you, Travis.
Good day, everyone.
Welcome to this session.
So we're going to be focusing
on 2D graphics using Quartz.
Our agenda for today is basically
going into detail about what Quartz is,
look at the architecture,
see where it's used in the system,
where you might be using it indirectly,
where you might want
to focus on using it.
The bulk of the presentation is going
to be focusing on the Quartz API.
We'll conclude the session with a demo
demonstrating the power of Quartz.
So fundamentally, Quartz is the graphics
system on Mac OS X.
So it's responsible for
the Aqua look and feel.
It participates in that.
All of your window management
is handled by Quartz.
Rendering is part of
the printing workflow.
So it plays a very important
role throughout Mac OS X.
So looking at the system
architecture slide,
you'll notice that Quartz is
in the application services
layer right above Darwin.
At that level, we've got Quartz, OpenGL,
and QuickTime.
Looking at that in a little more detail,
You'll notice that Quick Draw, QuickTime,
and OpenGL are not only peers to Quartz,
but at the same time,
they're also sitting on top of Quartz.
And the reason for that is Quartz is
really composed of two components,
Quartz 2D, which is our focus today,
and the Quartz compositor.
So in the graphics and imaging overview,
we've talked a little
bit about both of them.
The Quartz compositor is responsible
for all your Windows server,
window management needs in the system.
It effectively handles the
compositing of multimedia,
your windows, your menus,
blending them appropriately
with the rest of the system
and sending that to on screen.
on the Quartz 2D side, that's your--
That's the rendering library,
and that's the focus of this talk today.
It's a low-level rendering library.
It's based on the PDF imaging model.
So hopefully most of you were
at the PDF and Mac OS X session
right before this one,
which discussed PDF and
the imaging model.
Quartz 2D in itself,
because it is based on the imaging
model and the way we've architected it,
is resolution and device independent.
So you do not have to worry
about what the device is.
That's abstracted for you.
All you have to do is
draw to the context,
which I'll get into.
And the resolution,
high fidelity output can be achieved
by Quartz minting the resolution of
your data throughout the workflow.
We also incorporate ColorSync and ATS.
ATS is Apple type services,
so that's for all your font management.
ColorSync is incorporated also,
so that allows you to get high fidelity
color managed output onto your device.
Quartz does all the work working
with ColorSync to achieve that.
So let's have a look at
where Quartz is used.
You may already be
using Quartz indirectly.
There's a Cocoa application, Carbon,
or Java applications.
They all sit on top of Quartz,
and so they're using Quartz indirectly.
In Cocoa, as Travis was mentioning,
most of the NS Bezier path classes,
NS image classes,
they take advantage of the Quartz API.
So the functionality in
Cocoa is very similar to Quartz.
So you're taking advantage
of Quartz indirectly there.
On the Carbon side, if you do some things
like draw theme text,
that goes through ATSUI,
which does all of its text
rendering through Quartz.
And also,
when you're printing from Carbon,
you're printing to a Quickdraw port.
Internally,
what we do is we translate the
Quickdraw calls into Quartz
calls for your printing needs.
Java 2D graphics are also
implemented on top of Quartz,
so they're handled
natively on the system.
You may want to directly access Quartz.
And what you want to do there
is you want to access it through
the Core Graphics framework.
Core Graphics is our
internal name for Quartz.
Quartz is more the marketing name.
Core Graphics is part of the
application services framework.
When would you want to
actually use Quartz?
From Carbon,
The Quickdraw model has been
around for the last 10-15 years,
but the Quartz imaging
model is much more richer,
much more advanced.
So that's an opportunity for you to take
advantage of advanced 2D graphics through
Carbon instead of using Quickdraw.
We also have two other APIs that
I won't be discussing too much today.
One is the Full Screen Access API,
and that's if you want to
access the screen for gaming
or for changing display depths.
That's available.
There's another API for remote access.
So applications like Timbuk2,
where you want to access a remote system
and get information about the contents
on screen or be able to send events,
that's also available.
That's also part of Quartz.
In general,
when you're working with Carbon, Cocoa,
or Java, those frameworks will be the
ones that you go to for all
your window management needs.
Quartz doesn't provide
that to you explicitly.
They're done implicitly through
those high-level frameworks.
So let's get into the API itself.
It's a C-based interface,
and the reason for that is
because we're servicing Cocoa,
Carbon, and Java.
So you've got Objective-C, C++,
and Java that's interacting
with the system.
We decided to choose a simple
C-based interface that can service
all three of those clients.
And so those who are familiar with
the core foundation naming convention,
Quartz relies on the same naming
convention for all of its API.
And the convention is
basically a two-letter keyword
representing the framework that
you're working on and class,
verb, and object.
So in our case,
CG represents the framework.
So all of Quartz calls
will begin with CG.
So as an example, CG context draw image.
It's straightforward.
What that really does is it
draws an image into a CG context.
So here's a list of the
classes that we'll be talking
about that Quartz provides.
These are not classes in the C++ term.
These are just a collection of things
that we'll be discussing today.
So the first thing you want to do is
you want to interact with the device.
A Xig context is your
connection to the device.
So this is synonymous to a quick report.
On the Quartz side,
that connection is an abstraction.
So you do not have to worry
about the details of the device,
what the resolution is,
or whether it's a printer,
or whether it is on screen.
From your perspective,
you want to basically send down your
data in as rich a format as possible,
and Quartz will be
responsible for making,
because it knows about the device,
it will translate the data
appropriately to that device,
render it, save it out into PDF,
or whatever,
depending on what the device is.
So that, the important point there is,
you can send the same information to,
whatever device, through the same API,
make the same calls,
and it'll be handled for you.
One thing also that's
part of the CG context is
State is also part of that context.
So what I mean by state is
it's similar to Quick Draw,
where you're changing, setting the color,
you're setting the font.
You set that into the CG context.
And until you change it again,
the state is maintained.
So you can also save the state.
So,
if you want to make changes to the state,
for example, change the font color or
change the text color,
or change the CTM,
change the color space information,
do your drawing and then if
you want you can then restore
it and when you restore it,
you're restoring it back to
the state that you saved it at.
You do not have to worry about restoring
all of the changes that you made.
So, this way, this allows you to cleanly
get back to a state that,
which undoes, under,
undoes the old state.
all of the modifications
that you might have done.
So the context that we support,
if you're working on screen,
you're working with Cocoa or Carbon.
So Cocoa and Carbon will
create a context for you.
So on Cocoa side, you've got an NSView.
You can actually get the
graphics context for that view.
On the Carbon side,
you're working with a QuickDraw port.
On QuickDraw,
you can actually make a function call
to get at the context for that port.
When you're printing,
you're also working with contexts.
And those are created for
you from the printing system.
Those could be a PostScript context,
or those could be a Raster context,
depending on what the printer device is.
In those cases, in the first two cases,
the context is created for you.
We do provide two options.
There are other contexts that
you can create explicitly.
One is the CG bitmap, a PDF context.
This is where you are trying
to generate a PDF document.
So in order to generate a PDF document,
it's easy.
All you do is create a PDF context
and now start drawing all of
your things into that context.
And it will, all of that,
all of the drawings that you,
calls that you make will now
be saved into a PDF document.
At the same time, if you choose to,
you could also create a bitmap context,
which this is an off-screen context,
where you can create a bitmap context.
Where everything will be rendered
into that off-screen bitmap.
You could make the same set of
calls into that same context.
And instead of being saved out to PDF,
because it is now a different context,
you can now render the same set of calls.
So now that you've got a context,
let's look at the drawing primitives that
you would want to draw into that context.
Basically, there's four in number.
You've got vector geometry,
which is all of your line art,
2D line art, things like your rectangle,
ellipse, paths.
You've got text and images,
and then finally a PDF document.
So on the previous slide
I had talked about,
you know,
if you want to create a PDF document,
and now we also allow you to take
a PDF document and draw that into
a context as yet another primitive.
The drawing operations are done
using the painter's algorithm.
And that's basically,
you draw something onto a
canvas or onto the device,
and you lay down ink for
one drawing primitive.
And then you lay down ink for the next
one on top and continue to do that.
So it's a bottom to
top drawing operation.
Things above you obscure
things below you.
And in order to maintain
resolution independence,
all of our drawing operations
support floating point coordinates.
So you can even, with that,
you can define your shapes,
define your positioning in the
coordinate system using floating points,
and the appropriate translations
are done to the device,
and that allows for high precision
and high fidelity output.
So let's look at the first primitive,
which is vector geometry.
Fundamentally,
vector geometry is represented
as a path in Quartz.
What you want to do there is you first
want to define the path into the context.
The definition constructs that
internally in the context.
And the next thing you
want to do is draw it.
So drawing is simple.
There's just one called
CG Context Draw Path.
There are other convenience functions
that allow you to draw paths and shapes,
but that's one that you would
probably use more explicitly.
On the definition side, though,
It's very similar to PostScript,
the PDF imaging model.
Basically what you do is you begin a
path that destroys any paths that you
might have in the context already.
The first thing we want to do
after that is move to a point.
You can also do line 2, curve 2.
Curve 2 is a cubic Bezier curve.
A chord curve 2 is a
quadratic Bezier curve.
And if you choose to,
you may also want to close the path,
because there's a difference between
an open path and a closed path in
terms of how it will get rendered.
So as an example,
I'm going to try and just draw
a simple button-like shape
using some of these APIs.
The first thing to keep in
mind is I'll be illustrating
what the path will look like,
but the path isn't really being drawn
into the context as I step through this.
It's really being
collected into the context,
so the illustration is just to show
what the context is collecting.
You begin a path, you move to a point in
your coordinate system,
and if you can see, that's just a point,
I've just illustrated that there.
The move to sets the current
point in the context.
Then you can perform a line to,
and that draws a line from the
current point to the point that
you specify on the line to.
Next thing I'm going to do is call
a curve to where I specify two
control points and a final endpoint,
and that defines a cubic Bezier
curve from the current point
to the endpoint specified.
And similarly, as I keep going on,
the line to and the curve to.
And as a result,
I'm able to define a shape.
I can also explicitly
close that path also.
So here's a sequence
that defines that shape.
You don't necessarily have to go through
that sequence for some of the more
common primitives that you are used to.
For example, rectangle lines and arcs.
Arcs can be used to define circles.
We provide convenience functions,
which I haven't listed,
but they're available.
You don't have to construct all of those.
For example, for a rectangle,
you don't have to do a move to, line to,
line to, line to, line to.
There's a simple convenience
function for that.
Once you define the shape,
now you want to draw it.
There are a few drawing
operations that you can do to it.
You want to fill it,
you may want to clip it,
and you may want to stroke it.
So fill is really defining the content
of that shape that you've defined.
There's a fill and an EO fill.
I'll show you the
difference between the two.
Instead of filling,
you could also choose to set the content
of that shape to be a clipping region.
Once you set a clip for a shape,
any drawing operation that you
might do from that point onwards,
while the clip is currently
set in the context,
all those drawing operations
will be effectively clipped to
that shape that you've defined.
You can also stroke the outline of
that shape with a pen effectively,
and we provide for various
stroking parameters.
You can set the width,
what happens at line joints,
you can define that,
what happens at the end of a
path in terms of the line cap.
You can set the miter limits
and also specify line dash
parameters to control the dashing,
effectively define a dot
dash pattern on that line.
So here are examples of paths.
So on the top left,
you will see two open paths.
One is a simple line,
one with a dash pattern,
one using cubic Bezier curves,
using the curve tool.
A more complicated
example on your top right.
And here's the two stars.
They illustrate the difference
between a fill and an EO fill.
So on the bottom left,
the one which is not filled,
on the center,
that's an EO fill because it's
an even odd filling rule that
defines how things are filled.
The other star is based
on the winding rule,
which is the standard fill operation.
Paths can be composed of sub-paths also,
and those paths can be disjoint.
So as an example,
you could also do a donut-like shape
where the sub-paths are really...
disjoint from the other one.
And to do something like that,
all you do is perform
another move-to operation.
So with those path constructs,
you can actually generate
really complicated 2D line art.
Text is similar in nature because
characters are nothing more than...
we work directly with outline fonts,
so...
A glyph is really effectively
a path defined in the font.
But you don't have to
work at it at that level.
We provide glyph and drawing functions
to draw your text onto a context.
And we support outline fonts.
And most of these are coming from
our leveraging ATS on the system.
There's two types, Type 1, OpenType,
CID fonts for systems which
have a huge number of glyphs
in the order of thousands.
Primarily Chinese, Japanese, Korean,
Vietnamese take advantage of that.
And similarly to paths,
one thing you can do is fill it,
stroke it, and clip it also.
Text can, the functionality that we
provide is at the glyph level.
That's the basic functionality,
that's the main functionality
that Quartz provides.
We also provide simple text
drawing functionality where it's
primarily Mac Roman encoding.
But for Unicode support,
what you really want to do is
take advantage of Atsui above us.
That will handle all of your
Unicode needs and your layout needs.
So let's have a look at how the
APIs that you would want to use here.
First thing you want to do
is create a CG font ref.
That can come from a platform font,
for example, ATS font ref.
There's another function that allows
you to select a font by name also.
Once you've selected the
font into the context,
effectively you do two things next.
You set the text drawing mode,
one of the three types that I mentioned.
Those could be mixed also.
You might want to fill and
stroke or fill and set the clip.
And then you just draw your text.
There's the two types
that I was mentioning.
If you want to draw text explicitly
or you want to draw glyphs.
The context maintains a
current text position.
So when you just do a draw text.
Or sorry,
when you do a show text or a show glyph,
it starts the text off at the current
text drawing position and draws
your text from that point onwards.
You could also and once the text
has been drawn to the context,
it updates the text drawing position.
You can explicitly also draw text
at by not by specifying the point
that you want to start it at also.
So that covers text,
and that's our second
primitive in the system.
The next one I'll focus on is images.
We've got support for various
types of image formats,
primarily through the various
color spaces that we support.
So we support RGB, LAB, CMYK images.
You can draw all of these into a context.
And because we also work
heavily with ColorSync,
we also support ICC profile-based
images or ICC profile-based color spaces
that you can associate with an image.
And it will be appropriately
color managed for you when
you render it into a context.
We support an alpha channel,
and an alpha channel is nothing
more than another channel.
So in an example where
you've got an RGB image,
the alpha channel will be yet
another component in that,
and that represents the transparency
for that color component.
The data could also be
pre-multiplied or not,
which effectively means it determines
whether the color values have been
pre-multiplied by the alpha or not.
So that's provided in the system also.
Also, we also can create images which are
one-bit or eight-bit image masks.
Once you create an image like that,
you can also draw that into a context.
Once you draw that image,
what you're effectively doing is the
current color that's been set into the
context will be drawn through that mask.
So that's another interesting feature
that we've got in Quartz also.
So using images are very simple.
First thing you want to do is
basically create a CG image graph,
and you want to call it
CG image create function.
And when you're creating that image,
you're specifying all the
parameters that define that image.
You're specifying the width, the height,
how many bits there
are in that component,
bits per pixel, the color space,
whether it's RGB, LAMP, CMYK, whatnot.
[Transcript missing]
Once you're done creating that image,
and it's very simple
from that point onwards,
you just draw that CG context,
call the CG context draw image call,
and you specify a rectangle that
you want the image to be drawn into.
PDF documents are very similar
in nature in the sense that
they're as simple as images.
First thing you want to do
is create a PDF document ref.
You can create a PDF document
ref from a file on disk,
or if you've got one in memory,
you can create a PDF document ref.
You've got functions for that.
Once you've got that PDF document that
effectively points to the document,
all you want to do is just
draw that into a context.
And the function that you use there
is a CG context draw PDF document.
We also provide some convenience
functions that allow you to get
the bounding box or the number
of pages in that PDF document.
So those are provided.
So now that we've covered all
of the drawing primitives,
you may want to do some neat
effects while you're drawing.
One thing that you might want to
do is look at the transformation
model that we've got in Quartz.
The initial coordinate system is
anchored at an origin on the bottom left.
So your 0, 0 is at the bottom left.
This is different from QuickDraw,
if you're familiar with that,
which is at your top left.
And it's anchored in the bottom left,
and it's like a Cartesian graph,
so it's increasing Y upwards
and X increasing to your right.
That's your initial coordinate system.
That's the coordinate system that
you get when you get a context.
And now you can modify that by applying
a transformation onto that context.
So there are transformations like,
you know,
the simple examples are rotations,
translate, scales, you may want to skew.
You could even build up complex
transformations yourself.
So we provide two mechanisms for that.
One is that you draw--you set the
transform as in the--modify the
current CTM that's inside the context
directly by making context calls.
And the other thing you do is you
can--we've got affine transform
classes that allow you to--that
allow you to build up a transform.
And then you can--once you've
built the appropriate transform,
you can set that into the context.
So let me just go into that
and show it as an example.
So here is the default coordinate system.
So let's say we're just
drawing a unit square.
[Transcript missing]
If we were to modify the
CTM prior to drawing the path,
prior to drawing the rectangle,
and let's say we're just
doing a rotate operation,
so it's going to rotate about the origin,
Notice the new coordinate system.
It started out like this.
It's now rotated.
So now any drawing operations
you do from that point onwards,
for example, are rectangle,
are now relative to that new
coordinate system that's in place.
Let's say you were to also insert,
before drawing the path,
you were also to draw, apply a scale.
So now we're building on that rotation
that we had applied earlier and now
we're performing a scale on top of that.
And similarly,
if you were to perform a translate,
but you translate in the X direction,
it's not X relative to the
original coordinate system,
it's relative to the most recent,
effectively to the current transformation
matrix that's in the system.
So you'll notice that it's, in this case,
it's translating to the top right,
even though what we may have specified
is a translation in the X direction.
So using this, you can actually build up
really complex transformations.
Notice you do not have to do
the calculations and calculate
the points for that rectangle.
You can still continue to draw
your rectangle as if it was in
the original coordinate system.
It's just applied based on the
current transformation that is
set up for you or that you might
have set up explicitly yourself.
So we've talked about transformations.
We've talked about
some of the primitives.
One thing I want to get into next
is the color spaces that we support.
So when you're trying to
draw vector geometry or text,
you want to be able to draw that
with a variety of color spaces.
And here are the ones that we support.
So the first one is a
device-based color spaces.
These are color spaces where you
know what the destination device is.
These are usually very
simple for people to create,
and that's what most people end up using.
But that's not what we
recommend necessarily.
So in this case, you've got RGB, gray,
and CMYK.
You know what the destination is,
and you're telling Quartz you do
not want it to be color managed.
Alternately,
what we recommend is for people to use
calibrated color spaces or even go as far
as tagging your data with an ICC profile.
So you create these color spaces
from a profile or from a calibrated
space where you've specified.
You know, things like the gamma and the
white point for that color space.
And once that color space is set,
your drawing operations for your text
and your vector geometry will then be
color managed for you appropriately.
There's the LAB color
space also that we support.
And the last one is an index color space,
which is nothing more.
You have to have a reference color space,
for example, the RGB color space.
And you.
You build up an array of colors.
And your.
The color that you specify is done
through an index into that color table.
So this is very similar
to GIF or palettes images.
So in order to work with
color using our API,
what you want to do is
create a color space.
It's one of the ones
from the previous slides.
Once you've created a color space,
if you want to set that for the-- you
can do it for both fill and stroke.
So you can make calls to
set the fill color space,
and you can make calls to
set the stroke color space.
Now that that is selected
into the context,
when you're specifying the colors,
you pass it an array of color values
for the component of that color space.
For example, in RGB,
you'd be specifying the R, G,
and B components as an
array of color values.
We also allow you to add alpha values.
So when you set the color,
you can also pass in an alpha value.
And that leads us to transparency.
You can set a global
alpha into the context.
So what that means is when
you set an alpha value,
all of the drawing that you do from
that point onwards will inherit
that transparency value effectively.
So it will be composited for
you to the appropriate device.
Alternately,
you can also set that on the fill
or on the stroke explicitly also.
The global alpha can be applied
to PDF documents that you might
want to render into the context.
It would apply to text,
to all of the primitives
that we've talked about.
Whereas the fill and stroke ones only
apply to text and to vector geometry.
Transparency is supported on screen
context and for BitNap context because
the appropriate compositing is done for
you when you specify the alpha value.
On the PDF context,
we currently do not support transparency.
The transparency model in PDF is
part of the 1.4 spec that we
currently have not implemented.
The 1.4 spec is currently not published,
and we're working with
Adobe to track that spec.
We currently support 1.2 and 1.3.
A lot of what we support in terms of the
PDF specification was discussed in the
PDF and Mac OS X talk prior to this one.
And because PDF plays an important
role in the printing workflow,
because that's the spool file,
you will also not get transparency
on your printing contacts.
So that's something to keep in mind
because it will work on screen,
but until we add support for it
on the PDF and the printing side,
you will not get that necessarily
on the printed output.
So one thing, other thing I wanted to
cover was data provider,
data managers,
and examples of those are data
providers and data consumers.
This is nothing more than a way for
Quartz to provide data to you or
for you to provide data to Quartz.
So in the example of an image
where you were creating an image,
you're trying to provide the...
The bitmap bits to Quartz.
So you first have to create a
data provider and pass that in.
You're passing in the memory pointer
if that happens to be the one,
that happens to be the type of data
provider that you're working with.
If you're also working with
a PDF document that you have
on disk or something else,
you do the same thing.
You have to create a data provider that
allows Quartz to get at the data that
resides on disk or wherever it may lie.
So we provide convenience functions.
Most likely you've got the file loaded
already or it's already on disk.
So we've got convenience functions that
allow you to create data providers and
data consumers from memory and from disk.
And we use the CFURL mechanism
for defining the path for that.
And some miscellaneous items.
One thing, if you're drawing on screen,
you have to understand that
you're drawing into a back buffer.
It's buffered for you.
There's double buffering
that's applied to the system.
You're not drawing directly to screen.
So you would want to do
a flushing operation.
So if you wanted to see that drawing
operation immediately onto the screen.
There's also another function
called CGContextSynchronize.
And that's primarily similar to flushing,
except it allows you to synchronize
drawing from multiple components
so that they're all atomically
flushed at the same time.
You may want to call into a plug-in,
for example,
to do some drawing into a context.
But you don't want the
drawing to appear immediately.
So you'd expect that
plug-in to synchronize.
And then you may then choose to flush
the contents on your own when you're
ready to flush the appropriate pieces.
Once they're all done drawing,
you want to have that
appear atomically on screen.
You don't want things to
flash onto the screen.
So that's another function
that you can take advantage of.
If you're working with QuickDraw,
you're probably imaging through
the QuickDraw APIs already,
but you may choose to also
work with CG at the same time.
So there would be some interactions
if you're trying to do imaging
at both at the same time,
or if you want to,
given a QuickDraw port,
how do you get at a CG context for that?
So those interactions are actually
discussed in the Graphics and Imaging
Tips and Tricks talks on Friday morning.
So that's a very important talk
if you're working with Carbon or
if you're working with QuickDraw.
It focuses on two aspects.
One is the QuickDraw CG and
printing interaction,
and also discusses performance
issues related to flushing,
and we've got some tools
that will help you there.
Now I want to bring up
Andrew Barnes to do a demo that
demonstrates the power of Quartz.
So as Haroon indicated,
there are four types of objects.
There's line art, text, images,
and PDF documents.
This demo is going to demonstrate how
to draw all four of these documents,
or draw all four of these things,
as well as it's going to go
through some code examples.
When I was in the audience,
I saw a lot of people
taking a lot of notes.
This, the code fragments that I'm
going to be showing you are
probably going to be available,
or definitely I'm going to make sure
they are available on our website so
you don't have to take down the notes
because it's a fair chunk of code.
So the first thing we're going to
start off with is just normal line art.
We have a little demonstration
here and we show the Apple logo,
which is a nice logo.
Should have made it yellow in
keeping with today's color.
So it's the Apple logo.
So here is a stroked rectangle,
our favorite star that does some
strange things to show EO Phil,
and some stroking where the dash pattern.
Dashing is just basically
a way to show the
In the API, it's specified as an array
of floating point values.
They basically specify how much to go on,
how much to go off, how much to go on,
how much to go off.
And there's an extra phase parameter
that allows you to take your start
point and move it through that array.
So for an example,
we are going to move things around.
So as you can see, I'm just adjusting the
phase based on some number.
And so all of this stuff is all--
it rotates like normal scales.
So let's see how we do that.
Let's start off with something
pretty straightforward.
It's going to be-- every object that's
ever drawn in this little demonstration
program is going to have a draw state,
specifies a transformation,
specifies some alpha,
specifies a bounding box of the
object in the object's user space.
So if I were drawing an
object that was a unit,
let's say a glyph,
I placed a glyph inside of a unit square,
the bounding box would
basically be 0 to 1,
1.
So we do that.
We keep track of this information
associated with the object so that
we can adjust the transformation
such that our particular point
that we want on the screen,
which is point A,
is going to be mapped at the
center of that bounding box.
So that bounding box information is
kept in track with the object so the
object can do its proper transformation.
And then there's a progress indicator.
For instance,
that little dashing movement thing
was done with a progress indicator.
So that's-- it's just an extra
piece of data that gets added on.
So as Haroon indicated,
there is-- the transformation state.
Now, there's a current transformation
that exists on the context,
PDF or raster context.
And you have to set
your transformation up.
So given a draw state,
which was this other stuff before with x,
y, width, and height,
where you simply go through
very basic stuff like translate,
rotate, scale,
and this is the little piece of
code that will make sure that your
bounding box is centered at that point.
So it just basically
translates and moves.
It's a little bit of
a half kind of thing.
So if you have a draw state,
you can get back a transform.
Now--
If you have a draw state and you
want to apply this transformation,
there's a little piece of dubious
code in here that basically says,
OK, if your transform is null,
then just take the matrix.
But that's just to show you
that you can either be working
with a transform object,
which a lot of people like working with.
They would just be able
to modify the transform,
and they keep the transform
associated with their object,
and they move that around.
And then they say, OK, draw with this.
Or they keep the parameters explicit,
you know, x, y, width, and height.
Or, sorry, x, y, angle, and scale,
and then you basically apply the two.
So in both cases,
we're going to apply this
to our current context.
In this particular case,
we have a transform.
You concatenate the transform
with the current CTM.
So if you start off with an
upright and you do some rotation,
something kind of goes there,
and then you can draw your object.
In the other case, it's like, OK,
I've got my explicit components.
I can either build a transform, right,
by concatenating all
these things together,
or I can apply them
directly to the context,
right?
And in that way,
I'm actually modifying the
current CTM as a series,
as a bunch of steps.
So that's what that code does,
which is basically the same
as this other code on top.
So, OK,
so now we are going to draw a path.
So there are two things
we can do with a path.
We can either fill it
or we can stroke it.
For this current demo,
the only thing that is really applicable
to the fill state is the color.
Once you get a fill state, our operation,
if it wants to apply a fill color,
is going to say apply fill
color or fill state apply,
and that will basically apply
the color space and the color.
Those are pretty straightforward.
The stroke state is a
little bit more complicated.
Stroking is obviously
going to be a color.
You can set the fill and the
stroke color independently.
When you're stroking,
you're going to be using
the line state or the line
parameters inside of the context.
There is the line width and the joining.
There are joins that are rounded
versus miter joins or butt joins.
Then there's capping,
which is when you stop a segment,
what happens to the end?
Does it get rounded or
it just gets chopped?
Or what happens to the join?
And then there's this dash array,
which is this array where you set
your points for your phase and you
specify a sequence of on and off.
This stroke state is basically passed
to the object if it needs to stroke
and basically just does those things.
Set the line joint, the cap, the width,
set the dashes, and set the color.
Pretty straightforward.
So now we're talking about paths.
For the purposes of this demo,
it's very simple.
It's just an array of segment
types and array of coordinates.
And all this little
tiny loop goes through.
It's just say, if it's a move 2,
pick the two coordinates off.
Put them on.
If it's a line 2, curve 2,
four coordinates.
So it's very straightforward.
Again, this will be in the website.
So now our path example goes in and says,
OK, I've got a path object
and I want to draw.
So all it has to do is
apply its transform,
code that you saw above,
apply its fill state,
apply its stroke state, set the alpha,
if anybody sets any alpha, begin a path,
enumerate the path segments,
and then draw your path.
And then you're done, pretty much.
So a lot of these parameters
have default values.
For instance,
unless you're doing something
strange with stroking,
you really don't have to set the
cap and the join or the dashes if
you're just doing a straight line.
But the other caveat to this is
that if you're unsure of what
your state in your context is,
you must set it.
I mean, you can't really assume that,
oh my gosh, the font size is going
to be the correct size.
And then, OK, I'll just show some
text or show something.
But you're not always sure
where that thing came from.
But if you are sure,
you definitely do not have to do it.
If you make modifications,
as Haroun indicated,
to the current graphic state,
you can bracket it by a save
and a restore so that you can
make little tiny twiddling.
I can change the color
or change the dashing.
Then you can restore your changes,
which just revert the context
back or revert the current state
back to what it was before.
So whenever these functions or
this function or all of these
demo functions are called,
what I do is I basically do
my bracket and I do my end.
With reference to the synchronize call,
you could possibly do-- I could
either do a flush here if I wanted
to flush each object independently,
or I could do a synchronize, which says,
I'm finished drawing my stuff.
Synchronize it.
And let's move on.
OK, so in saying that, let's move on.
So we move to our second demo.
So we're saying our second demo is text.
So we can fill and stroke text.
And we can think text.
And we can stroke.
And of course, you can rotate, scale.
You know, usual stuff.
And--
So let's go to our little demo.
So now we're moving on to this case.
Broken up into two sections.
First section has to do with text.
Text, in this particular example,
this is slightly misnamed,
but it really has to do with a
ASCII string of text with some encoding.
For this particular example,
it's going to be macro encoding.
So we're going to get
some string of text,
and we're just going to say, OK,
I want to deal with the string
of text in macro encoding.
So, like the path example,
it's pretty straightforward.
You know, when the object comes in,
it has a draw state,
has a text rendering mode.
That's how you're able
to get the strokes.
It has a font size, a character,
you know, and some text.
So basically, when the draw happens,
we apply the transformation,
which was the whole rotation scale thing.
Then we apply the fill state,
the stroke state, set the alpha,
select the font by name with its size.
And the encoding.
In this case, it's macro and encoding.
It's a parameter because it
could be not macro and encoding.
And then we set the text mode.
In that example you saw that, right,
there was stroking and filling and there,
I think there are four.
There is filling, stroking,
filling and stroking.
And clipping, I think.
Actually, no, there are six.
But you can look at that in the
documentation or in the header files,
actually.
So once we're done with that,
then we can say show text at point,
right?
Or show text or some other,
a whole bunch of text type operators
that take an ASCII string and send
it through some particular encoding
that's indicated by the font.
The select font is really
a convenience function.
As you'll see in the next example,
select font basically calls the font
API to find the font by a particular
name and then apply an encoding onto
a font and then set the font into the
context and then set the font's scale.
So in the second example,
we're going to deal with glyphs.
Glyphs are basically
actual indices of text.
Outlines inside of a particular font.
They're not Unicode.
They're not...
They're not anything that's portable.
It's really particular
to a particular font.
Now, typically,
a lot of layout engines will decide
to take arbitrary Unicode text
or Kanji text or something like
that and transform them into glyphs
associated with a particular font.
And at the lowest level of API,
you really are going to be just
drawing an array of glyphs that
are matched with a particular font.
So any particular text run,
after it's been figured out that you
have to do this and swivel it around
and put kerning and stuff like that,
you'll end up with just a bunch of
arrays of glyphs and their positions and
the font for which they're coming from.
So this example shows how
to draw with just glyph IDs.
You can use at sui to do
all of this layout stuff.
That's what it's for.
And you'll be able to take Unicode text
and convert it to glyph IDs and fonts,
and then you'll be able
to use those with CG.
So like all the examples,
they come with a fill state,
stroke state.
Text mode, to pretty usual.
Now we're going to get a font ID case,
right?
So if you get a font ref, sorry,
not font ID, font ref.
You get a font ref, and you have a size,
and you have the glyph array.
Like all the other examples before,
you apply a transform,
apply the fill state, stroke state,
set the font, set the color.
Here it was explicit.
Instead of the select
font mechanism by name,
you actually got the font
and you got the size.
You can say set the font, set the size.
Set the text rendering mode
and show glyphs at point.
Same like show text at point,
except it takes glyphs.
So hopefully everybody's
happy with there.
I haven't lost anything.
Anybody?
So now we're going to go
to the second example.
So now we're talking about images.
We have an alpha logo.
You know, of course, all the cases,
it's all the same object, right?
So it's like very--
And we can fade things out.
So images are--
[Transcript missing]
When the image is called to draw,
you simply apply the transform.
You set the alpha, which is how you're
able to get the fading,
and you draw the image
with the image box.
So let me sort of...
Both images and PDF documents have
the same parameter called the rect.
It basically specifies
a destination rect.
For both PDF documents and images,
there seem to be objects
that are in a unit square.
And what you do with that
rectangle is you basically say,
okay, I got this thing that's here,
which is like a unit square,
and I want to take it and put
it at this particular point.
So if you were to have an image
and it was 600 by 800 and you
wanted to do with no transform,
you would have to do with a unit square.
When you set the
transform to be identity,
you'd be able to take the image and
draw the image at the correct location.
[Transcript missing]
But we won't go to that just
yet because I lost my step.
Here's a PDF document.
You know, here's a nice little chicken.
There's no smoke and mirrors here.
This is real line art being rendered.
And our document.
And go down.
So there is just chicken document,
Mac OS datasheet, or Mac OS.
So documents are like images,
they take the same bounding rack,
to draw to the destination,
and they practically do the same thing.
You apply a transform, you set the alpha,
and you draw the document.
Very straightforward.
Don't worry about this piece of code.
That basically does our tracking
for our progress indicator.
Which allows us to page
through our document.
[Transcript missing]
Another example that uses
PDF documents and images.
And what it tries to
demonstrate is color matching.
Now, here's an example of an image
that was rendered off screen.
It's a PDF document.
Basically, that was rendered off-screen.
And the result of that
memory was switched around.
We lied and we said,
it's really a BGR image.
So we rendered RGB data.
And then we said, oh yeah,
forget the RGB.
We're just going to
call these triples BGR.
And basically, this image is essentially
the result of that.
It's just an image that got
rendered as if it was a BGR data.
And this is why all the reds are blues.
This particular case is a
slightly different example.
This is basically a PDF document.
Of course, it does that rotations.
The media box is kind of different.
That lays down CMYK colors.
And on the screen,
you see cyan as electric cyan.
Now,
what we want to do is we want to say, OK,
we would like to draw this PDF document.
We really want to proof
it on a CMYK printer.
So we have a CMYK profile,
which we got from ColorSync.
We load it up, and we created a color
space object from it.
And then we said, OK,
I want you to draw this
document inside this off-screen
context with this profile,
which is this ColorSync CMYK profile.
And that's why the cyan looks a little
bit like what it should look when you
print this electric cyan on a printer.
Now that you've finished the two
simple cases of draw document,
draw image, we go into slightly more
complicated example.
We get the document, the media box,
and we get the images color space,
which is the color space to use,
and we get the context as color space,
which is the color space to use for
drawing onto your off-screen image.
So basically the first time through,
if there's no context,
then let's make one.
So we go and compute the width, height,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And here we say,
I've got a piece of memory and
I want to create a data provider.
As Haroon indicated,
we have these data managers and
they allow you to create objects
that can consume and produce memory.
This particular case,
we want to create a consumer.
So the data provider is
a direct access sort of,
here's a sheet of memory, it's this size,
and we have a little
release function that says,
okay, when you're done with it and
everything's all released,
go call this method or this
function to free the memory up,
which is as soon as you
get the data pointer,
we just call free.
So once we create this data provider,
then we say, okay,
now that we have our data provider,
I want to create this image definition.
We have to specify the width and heights,
the bits per pixel.
In this particular case,
we're just using RGB 8-bit.
So bits per sample is going to be 8.
Bits per pixel is going to be 32.
Robites is going to be
width of the image times 4.
And we're saying that the
alpha is pre-multiplied first.
We're using an ARGB format.
And the color space,
no rendering attempt for the image.
So that's how you would create
an image from a bunch of memory,
which you can see this in an example.
When you look at the header files,
it would be a little bit more obvious.
Two of these parameters here are a
little bit-- don't worry about them.
They basically are decode parameters.
We do allow the ability to decode
images from one bit depth through
some transformation that's
linear and produce other bits.
So I can take a 2-bit image and map my
2 bits to 8-bit and expand the scale.
Or I can move the 2 bits and say,
I want you to only populate
the range from 128 to 255.
And that's what those decodes are.
Those decode things do.
When you see them in the documentation,
you'll say, OK, yeah,
that's what that was for.
So now we have our image.
Then the second thing that we need to do
is we have to create our bitmap context,
which is the context we want to draw to.
It's an off-screen context.
We're going to use the same memory
that we handed to the image.
And we're going to say, OK,
create a bitmap context with the correct
width and height and the bits per sample.
And we're going to say,
here's the color space to use.
We use this particular case.
For the CMYK case.
So we said, OK, here's a CMYK.
What we want to do is we're
going to use the CMYK to draw.
And because you've handed the
data provider off to the image,
you can just release it because
the image has reference to it.
So once we've done all of
that the first time through,
you didn't have a context.
You didn't have any memory.
You didn't have an image.
You just run through that little tiny
thing and it creates a life-size image
and context to draw into that image.
So now every time we
get-- new stuff coming in,
a different page or whatever,
we basically say, have our offscreen,
set our transformations so that
we're basically trying to say
whatever the media size of the
document that we're trying to render,
we want it to fit smack dab
in the middle of the image.
Because I only provided
10 pixels by 10 pixels,
and I wanted to draw on the 10 pixels.
So we translate the context
so it's correctly positioned.
We draw, basically, we erase the context,
or you clear it.
In this particular case,
we're recording alpha.
So we want to issue a clear,
which will clear out both the
alpha and the data planes.
And then we just draw a document
like the example before.
But remember,
we're going to an offscreen context.
So once a document is drawn, then we say,
OK, great.
We have our little offscreen image.
They're both referencing both
the image and the context.
We're referencing the
same piece of memory.
Basically take that.
Then we say, OK, great.
We're ready to draw.
We apply our transform.
We set our alpha.
And we draw our image.
And that's how, basically,
[Transcript missing]
random PDF document with an alpha
image being drawn with samples.
Okay, so I just wanted to finish off by
talking about some of the documentation.
There's a Quartz primer that's
available for you on our website.
TechPubs is currently working
on drawing with Quartz,
part of the Inside Mac OS X series.
And at the moment, if all fails,
you can always go back to the headers,
and those are available in the
Core Graphics framework as part of
the Application Services framework.
That's what you want to go off to.
And I want to invite Travis back
up to discuss the roadmap.
I want to quickly do the road map so
we have some time for some Q and A.
Obviously, we've already gone and done
the PDF courts of Mac OS X and
the drawing--actually,
no, they've revised it.
So, the next session that might
be of interest is drawing
Unicode text with Atsui.
I know that we mentioned
text handling in the session,
but for the built-in text handling
inside courts is very simple.
We mentioned a lot of it's at the glyph
level and based on Mac Roman encoding.
If you're developing applications,
you're going to want to use more
advanced text and so what we strongly
suggest you do is you use higher level
frameworks such as Atsui and MLTE.
That will be covered in the
drawing Unicode text with Atsui.
We also have an interesting
technology called image capture which
you've already seen demonstrated.
Allows your applications to
work with digital cameras.
Then we go over to a
very interesting session,
118, which is Color Sync,
which is we'll go into depth and
describe how color management works
in conjunction with Quartz to deliver
fully color managed content on the
user screen and output devices.
Unlike previously with Quick Draw,
where you really did not have a
color managed drawing environment,
Quartz is fully integrated with color
managed as was demonstrated by Andrew.
This is very important because we
feel that the fidelity on screen and
on print is valuable to all users
of all classes of applications.
So you should definitely check
out the Color Sync presentation.
Next, we have another text on Mac OS X.
This will again cover Quartz
and how it relates to the
other text APIs in the system.
Then we have a very
interesting demonstration.
If you are doing high
performance 2D work where you,
for example, using large bitmaps,
you can tell the performance
of Quartz is quite good.
If you need even greater performance,
you should check out the
OpenGL and high performance 2D.
And we also have a printing session.
The printing session
will talk about Carbon,
BSD, and Cocoa printing.
And then on the final day,
we have a very important
session for Carbon developers,
the graphics and imaging tips and tricks.
This session will provide a lot of
information to enable Carbon developers
to look seriously at using Quartz 2D for
their graphics as opposed to Quick Draw.
And then finally,
we have the feedback forum.